# Managing Reader Datasets #

As we have seen, each Reader in a workspace contains a source dataset parameter. This is set at the time of creation, but it can be edited at a later time.

The source dataset parameter is useful because it allows the creation of a prototype workspace, which is tested on a single source dataset and then adjusted to read multiple source datasets. 

However, it’s important to remember that the original dataset establishes the basis for the Reader schema definition. Problems arise if subsequent datasets do not conform to this original schema.


## Datasets with Different Attributes ##

Schema definition includes user attributes, so if the source dataset is switched to one with different attributes, there is an obvious conflict.

The original attributes are displayed in the workspace, not the newer set. In fact the newer attributes are read and attached to incoming features, but are invisible in the workspace and won’t get written to the output dataset. 


## Datasets with Different Feature Types ##
Schema definition also includes feature types (layers, tables, etc).

As with attributes, if the source dataset is changed the original feature types are still displayed in the workspace, not the newer set of feature types. 

In this scenario the data is automatically discarded; i.e. Reader feature types defined in the workspace act as a type of filter through which incoming data must pass.

The incoming feature types are unexpected, and so the filter is called the Unexpected Input Remover.