# AttributeRemover #
# AttributeKeeper #

These two transformers carry out the same function, but approach it from opposite directions.

Both remove attributes (and list attributes) from features. However the AttributeRemover lets the user specify which ones are to be removed, whereas the AttributeKeeper lets them specify which ones are not to be removed; in other words, this transformer lets the user specify which ones to keep.

Basically, use:

- The AttributeRemover when one or two attributes are to be removed, but the majority of them kept
- The AttributeKeeper when the majority of attributes are to be removed, and only one or two of them kept.

Perhaps a more important question is what benefit removing attributes brings.

- Removing attributes that aren’t required tidies up a workspace and makes it easier to understand what is happening
- Removing attributes helps speed up the Workbench interface. Whenever a connection is changed or a transformer added, Workbench has to check to see how this affects the workspace. The fewer attributes, the less checking is required; therefore, Workbench performs faster
- Removing attributes also helps speed up the translation. FME may cache data to memory and disk at various stages of a translation. The fewer attributes, the less data needs to be cached, improving both speed and use of memory resources

Attributes don’t need to be removed to avoid writing them to a destination dataset, provided the attribute schema is manual. If the attribute doesn't exist on a manually defined schema, then it won’t get written. However, if the attribute schema is automatic, then all attributes present on incoming features will be written to the output. Any attributes not required should therefore be removed using these transformers.
